W 11936247 mq connected app support for mq connector hn (#2167)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: anypoint-mq/4.x/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

. Create or open a Mule project.
. Search for "mq" in the *Mule Palette*.
. Click *Anypoint MQ* to see the available operations for the connector.
+
image::amq-4x-connector-palette.png[Anypoint MQ Mule Palette]

. Configure the operation accordingly.
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Operation |Description
|xref:anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[ACK] |Indicates that the message has been consumed correctly and deletes the message from In Flight status.
|xref:anypoint-mq-consume.adoc[Consume] |Consumes messages from a queue.
|xref:anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[NACK] |Changes the status of the message from In Flight to In Queue to be consumed again by an available consumer.
|xref:anypoint-mq-publish.adoc[Publish] |Publishes messages to a destination.
|xref:anypoint-mq-listener.adoc[Subscriber] |Listens for messages from a queue.
|===

=== Configure the Connection to the Default Subscriber

For each operation, you must configure a connection to a subscriber.

In Anypoint Studio:

. Drag the name of the operation from the *Mule Palette* to the canvas, and then select it.
. Click the green plus sign to the right of *Connector configuration*.
. In Anypoint Platform, click *MQ > Destinations*.

> . Copy the URL for your region to the *URL* field in Studio.

Reviewer: We need to provide link here on how to obtain new URL

Anypoint MQ supports a wide range of messaging use cases, such as enterprise messaging patterns, asynchronous communications between microservices, and IoT. Anypoint MQ also has a REST API for publishing or consuming messages using frameworks such as node.js, Java, Go, and DevOps bash scripts.

== Requirements

To use this connector, you should be familiar with Anypoint Studio, Anypoint Connectors, and application flows. The Anypoint MQ connector is free, but connecting to the service in Anypoint Platform requires a license.

=== Compatibility

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Software |Version
|Mule runtime engine |4.1.1 and later
|Anypoint Studio |7 and later
|===

This documentation applies to Anypoint MQ connector 4.x only. To migrate from version 3.x to the version 4.x, see the xref:anypoint-mq-connector-upgrade-migrate.adoc[].

[[install-mq-connector]]
== Install Anypoint MQ Connector

You can use this connector with apps written in Anypoint Studio, standalone apps, or apps written in XML.

In Anypoint Studio:

. Create or open a Mule project.
. Click the *Exchange* icon in the Studio task bar.
. Enter your Anypoint Platform username and password and click *Sign in*.

> . Select *All assets* and search for "MQ".

Reviewer 2: I would use back ticks instead of quotes for MQ.

> . Select *All assets* and search for "MQ".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *All assets* and search for `MQ`.
```

> . Select "Anypoint MQ Connector - Mule 4", and click *Add to project*.

Reviewer 2: Here, I would use asterisks for Anypoint MQ Connector - Mule 4 since this is in the GUI.

> . Select "Anypoint MQ Connector - Mule 4", and click *Add to project*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *Anypoint MQ Connector - Mule 4*, and click *Add to project*.
```

. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

For standalone apps or apps written in XML:

. Open your Mule project in Anypoint Studio.
. Add the connector as a dependency in the `pom.xml` file:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
  <artifactId>anypoint-mq-connector</artifactId>
  <version>x.x.x</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

Replace `x.x.x` with the version that corresponds to the connector you are using.

To obtain the most up-to-date `pom.xml` file information, access the connector in https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] and click *Dependency Snippets*.

== Configure an Operation in a Mule Project

In Anypoint Studio:

. Install the connector, if it's not already installed.
+
See <<install-mq-connector>>.
. Create or open a Mule project.

> . Search for "mq" in the *Mule Palette*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Search for `mq` in the *Mule Palette*.
```

. Click *Anypoint MQ* to see the available operations for the connector.
+
image::amq-4x-connector-palette.png[Anypoint MQ Mule Palette]

. Configure the operation accordingly.
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Operation |Description

> |xref:anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[ACK] |Indicates that the message has been consumed correctly and deletes the message from In Flight status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|xref:anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[ACK] |Indicates that the message was consumed correctly and deletes the message from `In Flight` status.
```

|xref:anypoint-mq-consume.adoc[Consume] |Consumes messages from a queue.

> |xref:anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[NACK] |Changes the status of the message from In Flight to In Queue to be consumed again by an available consumer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|xref:anypoint-mq-ack.adoc[NACK] |Changes the status of the message from `In Flight` to In `Queue` to be consumed again by an available consumer.
```

Author: Incorrect, but applied corrected suggestion.

. Click the green plus sign to the right of *Connector configuration*.
. In Anypoint Platform, click *MQ > Destinations*.
. Click *Copy* and select *Connector version 4.x and later* from the menu:
+
image::mq::mq-tutorial-url.png["Copy button in the Destinations page"]
. In Anypoint Studio, in the *Anypoint MQ Config* window, paste the URL in the *URL* field.
. In Anypoint MQ, click *MQ > Client Apps*.
+
If needed, create a client app.
. Click the client app name to display the details pane.
. Copy the client app ID and client secret values from the details pane to the *Anypoint MQ Config* window in Studio:
+
image::mq::mq-tutorial-studio7-mq-config.png["URL, Client App ID, and Client Secret fields in the Anypoint MQ Config window"]

. Click *Test Connection* to verify the Anypoint MQ Default subscriber.
. Click *OK*.

For more information, see 
xref:mq::mq-tutorial.adoc#configure-mule-4-studio[Configure an App with Anypoint MQ in Anypoint Studio 7] in the 
xref:mq::mq-tutorial.adoc[Anypoint MQ Tutorial].

To configure the connector in Anypoint Design Center, see xref:mq::mq-tutorial.adoc#configure-design-center[Configure Anypoint MQ in Design Center]

> == See Also

Reviewer 2: This is a long list. Are there any references you can leave out?
